Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the Western Cape's Garden Route area, with a recorded 117% increase in new infections and 96% increase in deaths in the past seven days. The Western Cape government said all areas on the Garden Route were of great concern after 1,282 new Covid-19 cases and 25 new deaths related to Covid-19 were recorded in the past week. Last week, provincial health authorities announced they will be turning their attention to the Garden Route after a spike in infections resulted in increased hospitalisations. Premier Alan Winde  declared the Garden Route a “hotspot” and urged residents and visitors in towns such as George, Kynsna and Mossel Bay to stop the surge of infections by taking Covid-19 precautions. The central Karoo also recorded a high number of new infections, with a 112% increase in new cases in the past seven days. The Cape winelands region saw an increase of 80% in new cases, and the Cape Metro recorded a 73% increase in new cases. The Overberg region saw a 67% increase in new cases. The West Coast region recorded the lowest number of new cases, with 16% seen in the region over the past week. By Thursday, the Western Cape had 9,092 active Covid-19 cases, with a total of 128,703 confirmed cases and 4,594 deaths since the outbreak earlier this year. On Friday, during a visit to the Eastern Cape, which is also seeing an increase in cases, health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize said the government needed an approach that would deal with the outbreak of cases in the neighbouring provinces. “We need to know the new normal includes wearing masks, sanitising and social distancing. We encourage everyone to take the message of Covid-19 very seriously. Enjoy the festive season responsibly,” he said. The Western Cape health department has pleaded with residents in the province to do their part to bring the situation under control. “We all have a role to play through our own actions. Our behaviour will be influenced once we acknowledge and accept the coronavirus is not gone but will be with us over the holidays and beyond,” the department said. The department reminded all residents about Covid-19 safety protocols: TimesLIVE