The launch of Wedgewood, the most affordable residential property in Sandton, achieved record sales: 550 units sold in one day to the value of R750m. The public launch took place at the Wedgewood sales office at 114 Rivonia Road and caused a stir on November 21. People came in their numbers, with families, friends and partners to invest in and purchase their desired units. The energy in the sales office was unlike anything experienced before for a residential launch with digital screens, online purchasing, QR codes and interactive sales tools. The process was slick, fast, mostly paperless and digital — allowing for a seamless, yet efficient and Covid-friendly purchasing process. “We are extremely proud to create opportunities for first-time homeowners and investors alike — to own in a prime location, with 70% of the units available for under R1.2m. This is unheard of in the heart of the richest square mile in Africa, and we are excited to disrupt the market and pave the way for the next generation. “The record sales achieved in one day is the product of an internationally award-winning team of professionals combining to make history,” says Steve Brookes, CEO of SA residential developer Balwin Properties. Stefan Botha, director of Rainmaker Marketing, says: “It’s incredible to witness what urgency can be created when there is the optimal combination of product, location and price. Despite the recent impact of the pandemic, clients came out in their numbers to invest in this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. “The first buyers arrived from 11pm the night before the launch to be first in line when the sales opened at 8am. Based on the exceptional demand, the 1,348 apartments are expected to sell out within coming months, which will allow for completion of the building in March 2023.” Wedgewood Sandton features studio, one- and two-bedroom lifestyle apartments from R850,000. Buyers only require a R10,000 deposit and all bond and transfer costs are included in the purchase price. Some facilities include training science, outdoor cinema, business pods, rooftop entertainment areas, Motherland Coffee Company and a five-a-side football field. For more info, visit wedgewoodsandton.co.za. This article was paid for by Wedgewood Sandton.