Ernst Middendorp has said that playmaker Khama Billiat has been showing with his effort in training, and when he does come on, that he is “unhappy” at being used as a substitute for Kaizer Chiefs. Chiefs coach Middendorp says there are a number of players in his squad pushing for starting places at the moment as Absa Premiership leaders Amakhosi meet AmaZulu at FNB Stadium on Saturday night. He said Emmanuel Ntiya-Ntiya and Zambian Lazarous Kambole – yet to his the strides at Chiefs he showed at previous club Zesco United in his first season at Naturena – are among others pushing for starting places. Billiat came on as a 59th-minute substitute for Leonardo Castro in Chiefs’ perhaps crucial 1-0 Soweto derby win against Orlando Pirates at FNB on Saturday. “We have competition in the squad. I saw Lazarous Kambole this week [being] excellent. “I don’t know if it is about that he needs to be on the field to get a national team call-up. He’s definitely a candidate to play. “I think Khama is not happy with being a substitute coming into the game. And it’s good – I see it on the field too, that he’s moving. “[Siphosakhe] Ntiya-Ntiya, other players, are really going all out during the week to make themselves available. “And this is something that we will honour in terms of our selection. “And [we will] not [select] because there’s a new technical team [at AmaZulu]. This is not where we have our priority in terms of our preparation.” Chiefs went to seven points ahead of second-placed defending champions Mamelodi Sundowns, who have a game in hand, and nine in front of third-placed Pirates with their win against the Buccaneers. That result is sure to have energised Middendorp’s squad, who had found themselves under pressure from a mini-slump of a home league defeat against Maritzburg United and away Nedbank Cup last-16 loss on penalties against Highlands Park. PSL this weekend - Friday: Maritzburg United 1 Polokwane City 0 Saturday: Baroka FC v Black Leopards (Peter Mokaba Stadium‚ 3.30pm) Lamontville Golden Arrows v Orlando Pirates (Sugar Ray Xulu Stadium‚ 6pm) Kaizer Chiefs v AmaZulu (FNB Stadium‚ 8.15pm) Bidvest Wits v Chippa United (Bidvest Stadium‚ 8.15pm) Sunday: Cape Town City v Bloemfontein Celtic (Athlone Stadium‚ 3.30pm) Highlands Park v SuperSport United (Makhulong Stadium‚ 3.30pm)