Former Nelson Mandela Bay councillor Andile Lungisa, who began  a prison term on Thursday, was trending on social media at the weekend — but it had nothing to do with his imprisonment. Instead, a person purporting to be Lungisa was asking for money from his friends and family via Lungisa’s Facebook account. A WhatsApp number, 061-110-7622, was provided. Lungisa’s brother, Ayongezwa Lungisa-Ntlemeza,  denied in a Facebook post that it was his sibling asking for money. He said his brother’s Facebook account had been hacked and someone else was asking for money. Lungisa-Ntlemeza said the hacking  had been discovered after he received numerous  queries from his Facebook friends. “Andile does not have that cell number,” he said. “We wish to advise everyone that those in boxes [messages] are not from Andile as they purport [to be] and he cannot be WhatsApped as he does not have gadgets [phones or computers] to perform such activity. “The hacker has put Andile’s picture on the profile of this  WhatsApp [number]. “This is unfortunately a nefarious and evil act to depict him to be in possession of technological gadgets thereby [making it appear] that he is being  treated in a special way [in] prison.” Lungisa-Ntlemeza said they were trying to  temporarily deactivate his brother’s Facebook account. When a reporter  sent a message to the WhatsApp number, the person who responded said he was  Lungisa and asked for R800 to be transferred via FNB’s e-wallet service. But when the reporter called the cellphone number, the call went straight to voicemail. When the reporter WhatsApped the person to tell him  the  calls were not being answered, the person blamed “network problems”. Asked  what it was like in prison, the person responded: “It is hard.” When he was asked to supply a photo of himself  via WhatsApp, the person sent an old photograph of Lungisa sitting at a table outdoors drinking a beverage. The person did not respond to further attempts  to  establish whether it was  really Lungisa or an impostor. HeraldLIVE