The Gauteng  province has recorded 813 cases of Covid-19, the health department said on Sunday, an increase of 12 cases since data released on Saturday. Of the total number of Covid-19 cases recorded in the province, 467 cases were from Johannesburg, 131 from Ekurhuleni, 92 from Tshwane, 30 from the West Rand, and six from Sedibeng. There are 77 unallocated cases. The total number of deaths is three. On Saturday, the department said Gauteng had recorded 801 cases as at April 10 since the outbreak was confirmed in the country in March, with the number of recoveries 157. Of the confirmed Covid-19 cases, 10 were being treated in the intensive care units in various facilities. The district breakdown then was Johannesburg with 446 cases, Ekurhuleni 120, Tshwane 90, West Rand 12, Sedibeng 6 and 127 unallocated areas. The provincial health department has urged residents to use cloth face masks in addition to the general hygiene rules to contain the spread of Covid-19. “Face masks are recommended as an addition to golden rules of good hygiene and social distancing. “The face mask should never be promoted as our primary prevention strategy and should never be promoted separately from hand washing and social distancing measures. Face masks are recommended for use by the public to ensure that N95 masks and surgical masks are available to be used by health care workers who are at the front line of the battle against Covid-19,” the department said in a statement. Rules to be followed when masks are used include: •The face mask must cover the nose and mouth completely. • Face masks should not be lowered when speaking, coughing or sneezing. • Face masks should never be touched — fidgeting with the mask repeatedly is strongly discouraged as it is important to avoid touching the face with hands. The inner side of the mask should not be touched by hands. • Wash hands before and after donning or removing the face mask. • Wash cloth face masks with warm soapy water and iron when dry. Ironing assists with decontamination • Change your cloth face mask if it is wet or visibly soiled • Each person will need to have at least 2 face masks so that one face mask is available when the other is being washed.