Fondly known as the "Nubian Princess", Nomzamo Mbatha has become somewhat of an icon  not only in the field of acting, but in fashion as well. Whether she is rocking an all-natural 'fro at the many philanthropic events she attends, or the belle of the ball on the  red carpet e, Mbatha has truly grown from her days as the girl-next-door on  Isibaya. So, let's dig deep into her closet and look back at Mbatha's fiery style evolution. Mbatha burst onto the scene as a funky  hopeful on MTV Base VJ Search.  On the show, Mbatha was known for her bold copper hair but when she was asked to audition for a role on Mzansi Magic telenovela Isibaya, she quickly went from sex siren to the girl next door. As her acting roles were piling up,  which meant more red carpet appearances and more stamps in her passport, Mbatha adopted the ever-popular  African aesthetic, ensuring the rise of the Nubian Princess. Come 2015, and Mbatha had cemented herself as a star , scoring major  deals with the likes of beauty brand, Neutrogena and becoming a regular not only on  catwalks, but also top fashion show front-rows.   It wasn't long before we would be blessed with bolder fashion choices including the many Khosi Nkosi ensembles that refined what became her signature style. There was one main constant in 2016 for Mbathat - securing the bag.   Style-wise, Mbatha took it up a notch with a  bit of old school Hollywood glam. But, as usual, Mbatha proved to be a fashion chameleon when she became the face of numerous Puma campaigns, giving her the  chance  to merge her red carpet flair with a sexy sporty kick. Mbatha often has her finger firmly on the pulse of fashion trends, always finding a way to adopt the biggest ones into her wardrobe. When Crocs, furry sandals and OTT sleeves were among the many trends to cop, Mbatha led the way for  fashionistas who were bringing sexy back. Whether she opted for bold, on-trend colours like yellow, or softer palettes like rose gold, Mbatha knew just how to  unleash her inner sexy. While some have questioned her label as an activist, Mbatha always made a point to speak out on social ills.  When she didn't take to podiums and social media to voice her stance with the socio-political plight and gender equality, she opted for designers who would allow her to use fashion as a canvass for making a statement. For her graduation get-up, Mbatha wore a gown co-designed by her that helped raise awareness on mental health. In late 2019, Mbatha debuted her newest hairstyle which stood out from her usual  looks. Her style also embraced more deconstructed garments with daring silhouettes that accompanied her toned physique. The refreshing new step  may have been inspired by  fashion from the States where she was filming the sequel for Coming to America. Many of Mbatha's style options have often gone hand-in-hand with her hair. When 2020 came around, she chose to rock less hair and up the ante on her fashion and accessories. With detailed shapes and extravagant pieces, her accessories from earrings to neck pieces elevated muted gowns and skirts, stepping away from the kaleidoscope of African prints.