Known to her fans as "V-Mash",  actress and  TV presenter, Vinolia Mashego,  captivated the hearts of many throughout her career. Famed for her big personality and blonde hairdo, Mashego  served as the reason why many South Africans tuned in to SABC 1’s famous variety show Jam Alley. News of her passing has sent shock waves across the country.  The entertainer is reported to have passed away in her sleep. The icon will be missed for her enthusiasm, bubbly character as well as her catchphrases like "Iyo bangani, iyo! ". In celebration of her life and the impact she has made, , here are five things you might not know have known about the star. Mashego’s father, Collin Mashego, was known for his show Lapologa in the early 1980’s.  V-Mash's career was proof that the apple does not fall too far from the tree as she followed in her father's silver-screen footsteps. Mashego was part of the original cast of the popular SABC 1 soapie, Generations.  She played the role of advertising executive, Hilda Letlalo . Since then, the star has also acted in various other soapies including Muvhango and Isibaya. Vinolia’s son, Oratile, is said to not have know that his mother was a public figure until he was 12 years old. The TV presenter and actress is believed to have deliberately kept it away from him in order to protect him. According to reports, for most of his childhood, Oratile  did not like going out with his mother, due to the attention it garnered. Despite a tumultuous career leading to public axings from popular television shows, Mashego was on her way to owning our TV screens again.  The 56-year-old was currently hosting Moja Love show Bheka Sik'bambile and recently also enjoyed a role on SABC 2's popular series, Giyani: Land of Blood. The star was once the subject of one of the episodes of SABC 2’s documentary “I had it all”. The episode was aired in October 2013, where  she spoke  openly about her rise and fall in the entertainment industry—ranging  from being a top TV personality to having to make ends meet after losing it all.