Recent employment statistics show clearly how competition for jobs in SA is becoming increasingly fierce. You may well now be typing “how to get a job in South Africa” into Google. The number of employed persons in SA increased by 62,000 in the third quarter of 2019 compared with the previous quarter, while the number of unemployed persons increased by 78,000. There has never been a better time to earn an accredited degree, diploma or certificate. It is a great way to get your career off the ground. Having industry knowledge will help you become an expert and elevate your role in your sector. With this awareness, you can equip yourself with the skills, education and experience that you need to be competitive in your field. There are many study options available at colleges such as Damelin. You can study full-time and be certified quickly. Depending on the college you choose, you will enjoy a vibrant tertiary experience that will enhance your studies – or, if you’re a parent, for example, studying part-time is an excellent alternative. You’ll be able to attend classes after hours and on weekends. It also lets you network with working professionals, which could help you secure an interview. It’s important to match your programme with the fastest-growing industries in SA. Here are some of the popular sectors in which you can build a prosperous future and increase your earning potential: Is your college affordable? The best colleges balance quality with accessibility. Some colleges offer discounted programme promotions. Others offer easy payment plans, allowing you to secure your qualification flexibly. Another factor is the college’s alumni base. Type your college’s name into a business-orientated site such as LinkedIn to list its graduates. You’ll be able to see whether they are building legacies in their workplace. Remember, the deciding factor is often hard work and determination. But with a recognised qualification, you’ll have the confidence to ace your interview.  Sources: Stats SA, EWN, MyBroadband, PayScale, BusinessTech, Michael Page, CareerJunction This article was paid for by Educor.