Do you know which activities are best to duck this festive season? In the midst of the country's second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, and to steady ourselves for the back to school and work environment that is just weeks away, the Solidarity Fund is rolling out a national media campaign. “The best gift we can receive and give during this festive season, under the cloud of coronavirus, is the gift of caring for the safety of each other. Stop the spread,” said the fund. “Although the economy, out of necessity, has opened up, the pandemic is still a part of our lives, and one that will be so for some time.” December is the 10th month of SA’s fight against the coronavirus, another milestone since the country first went into one of the world's strictest lockdowns on March 27. As the lockdown levels have eased, so has our vigilance. Coupled with complacency, this has given the virus fertile ground to spread, said the fund. “Infections are rising exponentially. People are suffering, their lungs scarred, their bodies fatigued and, sadly, many more are dying each day. “But as 'Dezemba' arrives and festivities, celebrations and the groove picks up, it is more crucial than ever to not let down our guard.” The Solidarity Fund said second wave infections have devastated other nations, so it is asking South Africans to remember that the most effective weapon against the virus lies with them taking responsibility for their own behaviour. “It is human nature that we are going to let down our guard as the holidays begin,” said the fund's Wendy Tlou. “But we are appealing to and reminding everyone to keep up with the basics to stop the spread of coronavirus. “Let’s learn to co-exist with this virus safely, whether we are on an airplane or in a taxi, shopping in an exclusive boutique or back home with our grandparents.” The campaign, conceptualised by Joe Public United, urges citizens to not behave like a mampara, an ibhari, a mabena or chop. It distinguishes between low-risk, medium-risk and high-risk activities that need to be avoided: With the hashtag #UnityInAction, the campaign advises: TimesLIVE