Freedom Under Law has welcomed the dropping of charges against three former Sars employees in the so-called “rogue unit” case. The organisation said it was now looking forward to those responsible for bringing these bogus charges against the three being identified and dealt with. The announcement that the charges against Ivan Pillay, Andries Janse van Rensburg and Johan van Loggerenberg were to be withdrawn was made by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) on Friday night. The trio faced various charges, including that they had set up an illegal unit within Sars — which was dubbed the “rogue unit” — to spy on taxpayers. The charges are set to be dropped at their next court appearance. In a statement, Freedom Under Law said this was bad news for some still within the tax authority, or those aligned to its former leadership. “It is no doubt also a grave disappointment for certain resourceful politicians, one-eyed conspiracy theorists, media gossips and other 'useful idiots' of the state capture brigade. “Sadly, however, they’re unlikely to be deterred by facts,” Freedom Under Law chairperson, Judge Johann Kriegler, said. He said for Pillay, his co-accused and their many supporters within Sars and elsewhere, it was good that their names had been cleared at last. “For far too long they have been the targets of the vicious lies of the 'rogue unit' fantasy, their lives and reputations irreparably damaged,” Kriegler said. Kriegler said there was a different and more important reason why the announcement by the NPA was even better news for the country generally. “The statement speaks for itself — soberly and frankly, providing reassuring and informative detail. In particular it evidences careful and reasoned scrutiny by the [National Director of Public Prosecutions Shamila Batohi] of a thorough report by impartial experts.” Kriegler said this attitude and style contrasted starkly with the antics of  Batohi’s predecessor. “We in Freedom Under Law now look forward to rotten apples in the NPA — responsible for instituting and pursuing these bogus charges — being swiftly identified and dealt with,” Kriegler said.