The EFF and SACP have lashed out at US secretary of state Mike Pompeo over his remarks that the plan to expropriate land without compensation would be disastrous for the South African economy. The EFF said Pompeo’s comments were a senseless warning while the SACP viewed his comments as an attack on the SA government’s plan to achieve equitable land redistribution. Pompeo made the comments at the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, yesterday. He said that SA was planning on expropriating private property and that such a move had proven to be a dismal failure in other African countries such Zimbabwe, Tanzania and Ethiopia. The EFF spokesperson Vuyani Pambo said his remarks sought to maintain the US as the world’s super economy. “Pompeo’s utterances are consistent with the imperialist logic that seeks to parent the world, so as to maintain its firm grip as a superpower that holds policy direction for all nations subservient to it,” Pambo said. The government is seeking to amend section 25 of the constitution to allow for land to be expropriated without compensation. This would be done in order to address the historic dispossession of land belonging to black by white people at the barrel of a gun, which, to date still remains in their hands.The official opposition party, the DA, has opposed the bill – out for public comment – saying that it was unclear on property that that has been established on land that would be expropriated. Pambo said the move seeks to undo a “fundamental sin” against African people. “It is legislation that will address the racist spatial planning of the country, as well as collapse the monopoly the white minority has over the agricultural and mineral economy. “To expropriate land without compensation is to reverse the gains and prosperity of crime, something that the United States is too guilty to comprehend,” Pambo said. The SACP spokesperson Alex Mashilo said this process would help end inequality, homelessness and hunger which he said were principles of redress which “Pompeo proved to have come to Africa to enforce US imperialism – extraterritorial influence and rule of the US dog eat dog capitalist regime – in opposition to democratic post-colonial transformation towards social justice and shared prosperity,” Mashilo said. “South Africa is not a colony of the US or dominion of any type. It is an independent democratic republic. The SACP rejects foreign interference with contempt. Our democratic national sovereignty is sacrosanct. We will defend it, as we fought against colonialism and apartheid.”