Motorists are warned to be especially vigilant as according to the most recent SA crime statistics, hijackings are up by an alarming 13.3%. Claims statistics from Dialdirect Insurance also show that hijackers are back in business. “We have noticed that hijackings are back at the same level they were pre-lockdown. To prevent becoming another statistic, we recommend the following tips,” says spokesperson for Dialdirect Bianca de Beer. 1: Stay alert — it’s easy to get distracted. Make sure you keep your eyes on the road and notice your surroundings. 2: If and when possible, invest in an electric gate. Many hijackings and home invasions happen just as you are entering or leaving your home. Having a well-lit driveway and an electric gate (that can switch to a battery during power failures) can help you get in and out safely. 3: Leave enough room between your car and the one in front to avoid being boxed in. 4: If you think that you are being followed, drive to the nearest police station. Don't go home. 5: When driving home alone, always phone ahead to give a relative, your spouse or partner your established time of arrival. 6: Know your neighbours and the cars they drive. This will help to identify any uncommon vehicles in your area. 7: Adopt a search pattern radius to scout before approaching your home. 8: Adjust your speed when approaching a traffic light so that you do not have to come to a complete stop. There are also seven golden rules to follow if you are accosted by a hijacker: 1: Remain calm 2: Do not argue 3: Do not make sudden gestures 4: Avoid eye contact but try to remember what the carjacker looked like by identifying and remembering special features. 5: Comply with the hijackers directions (within reason) 6: Try to get away from the area as quickly as possible 7: Don’t be a hero — your life is worth more than your car “As we all know, prevention is better than cure, but in order to prevent a hijacking situation one needs to be equipped with the correct information and knowledge. Remember that the greatest weapon in a hijacker’s arsenal is not his gun, but the belief that it won’t happen to us. Hijacking is a reality and you need to be prepared for this horrific eventuality,” concludes De Beer. © TimesLIVE