Come hell or high water, Quiteria Kekana will showcase at the New York Fashion Week (NYFW). Kekana's womenswear brand Quiteria Atelier and leather bags maker Zimisele Dlamini are the local designers selected to participate at the coveted Flying Solo NYC showcase. Each year, NYFW opens applications to independent designers across the globe and selects only 10 to showcase under the slogan Ones To Watch. This year the show will take place on September 13 at the renowned Pier 59 Studios. But how will Kekana and Dlamini make their way to NYFW with confusion and uncertainty surrounding international travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic? "It's a trying time and mostly daunting on how it will work with the Covid-19 pandemic," Kekana admitted. "If the borders don't open, we are in communication with New York Fashion Week for me to showcase during the first season in February next year. "At the moment we are ready to leave and that's something I'm chuffed about." Kekana and Dlamini follow in the footsteps of David Tlale, Bongiwe Walaza, Bonga Bengu and Laduma Ngxokolo who, have showcased at NYFW. "My future goals are not only to realise profit and to be known for my passion of design, but also to use my talent and business as a beacon of hope and a weapon for the emergence of a robust black economy," Dlamini said. Kekana gained popularity after dressing Beyoncé during her performance at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100, in December 2018. Just before the Covid-19 lockdown came into effect in March, the 34-year-old showcased at the Paris Fashion Week. "The collection that I will be doing for New York Fashion Week is about the embodiment of an African woman as a person that carries life and I will like to celebrate that," Kekana said. "For me, it's about going back to basics and ensuring that exclusivity and defining what African luxury means - that diamond, platinum, gold, coal and oil are all that motherland has given us." Kekana last week unveiled Matorokisi hit-maker Makhadzi as his muse. "Talent and stardom is something I can easily detect. It's important to have someone like Makhadzi to come forward to say it doesn't matter where you come from and your background is not who you are - the world is here to witness the greatness that's Makhadzi," Kekana said. "Makhadzi represents the diversity in South Africa and Africa at large; bringing our different cultures to dance together."