The Absa Premiership will come back with a bang‚ with a kickoff date of August 11‚ and the match on that evening at 6pm a sizzler between Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates. The Premier Soccer League released the much-awaited revised fixtures for the resumption of the Premiership and GladAfrica Championship (National First Division) in the Gauteng biologically safe environment (BSE) on Thursday afternoon. The match-up between second-placed defending champions Sundowns and fourth-placed Pirates was the fixture (originally set for Tuesday‚ March 17) that was called off five months ago when football was initially suspended due to the coronavirus by the PSL on Monday‚ March 16. The game will now be played at Dobsonville Stadium‚ which was drawn as Sundowns’ home ground as each side in the BSE needs to play their closed-doors at a neutral "home" venue. The second fixture that was also among the two matches cancelled five months ago‚ between Kaizer Chiefs and Bidvest Wits‚ is the second game to take place in the BSE. It will be played at Amakhosi's new home ground for the duration of the BSE at Orlando Stadium on Wednesday‚ August 12. The game had initially been set down for Wednesday‚ March 18. The two fixtures‚ then and now‚ are set to have a huge impact on the title race. Leaders Chiefs hold a slender four-point lead over Sundowns‚ who have a game in hand. Wits‚ in sixth place‚ are 10 points behind Chiefs but with a game in hand‚ and play Amakhosi twice before the end of the season‚ hence still have an outside shot at the title. Professional football resumes with the Nedbank Cup semifinals on August 8‚ followed by the league resumption. The last round of Premiership fixtures will be on Saturday‚ September 5‚ where all games will kick off simultaneously at 3.30pm. The Nedbank Cup final will be played on Tuesday‚ September 8. The promotion/relegation play-offs – between the second‚ third and fourth-placed GladAfrica sides‚ and the second-last Premiership team – will start on September 6 and end on September 21. The opening fixtures of the GladAfrica will be on Sunday‚ August 9 between Real Kings and Cape Umoya at Tsakane Stadium‚ and Richards Bay and TS Sporting at Tuks Rugby Stadium (both 3.30pm). The last round of NFD fixtures will be on Sunday‚ August 30. REVISED 2019-20 ABSA PREMIERSHIP FIXTURES - Tuesday, August 11: Wednesday, August 12: Friday, August 14: Saturday, August 15: Sunday, August 16: Monday, August 17: Tuesday, August 18: Wednesday, August 19: Thursday, August 20: Friday, August 21: Saturday, August 22: Sunday, August 23: Monday, August 24: Tuesday, August 25: Thursday, August 27: Friday, August 28: Saturday, August 29: Sunday, August 30: Wednesday, September 2: Saturday, September 5: PROMOTION/RELEGATION PLAYOFFS -