Former state security minister and current chairperson of the portfolio committee on home affairs, Bongani Bongo, and his brother Sipho have been released on bail. Bongo and 10 other co-accused handed themselves in at the Nelspruit police station on Wednesday morning after warrants  for their arrests were issued. They are accused of colluding  to defraud the Mpumalanga department of human settlements of  about R124m. Bongo was the department's head of legal services at the time of the alleged crime and was allegedly involved in the deals that resulted in the government overspending by R54m when purchasing three farms for township development. Among those appearing along with Bongo were former head of the department of human settlements David Dube,  Patrick Chirwa and Harriston Dlamini. The court heard that Bongo and his brother are facing a schedule one offence. The charges are three counts of corruption and money laundering. State prosecutor adv Henry Nxumalo told the court that the Bongo brothers received three payments which were paid to a car dealership on their behalf. “The accused allegedly indirectly benefited from three transactions which were made by Nsingwane Attoneys to a car dealership. They are facing charges of money laundering and the state might add more charges to the accused,” said Nxumalo. Nxumalo told the court that the modus operandi in the crimes relating to the land deals was that companies would buy the farms at a lower price and sell them to the provincial government  at a higher price. Nxumalo said in one  instance in Ermelo, a company got a  farm free of charge and sold it through misrepresentation to the government. He said the other accused, who are facing schedule five offences, have to convince the court that hey must be given bail. Magistrate Suzan Monaledi gave Bongo and his brother R10,000 bail each. Their case was postponed to March 4 2021 to allow for further police investigation. The other accused are Robert Burwise, Patrick Chirwa, Harrington Dhlamini, Little River Trading 156, represented by Burwise, Broad Market Trading 204, represented by Dhlamini, Mduduzi Singwane, David Boy Dube, Bongani Thomas Bongo,  Vusi Willem Magagula, Bongani Sibiya, Bongiveli CC represented by Magagula, and Elmon Mdaka, Sibongile Mdaka, Pfuka Afrika CC represented by Elmon Mdaka. The  nine accused and the four companies  are still applying for bail in the Nelspruit magistrate's court.