The family of the late Ligwalagwala FM presenter and DJ, Sifiso “Kingdom” Mathebula, has described him as an "angel" who loved his work, family and friends. Mathebula died in a road crash on the R40 road between Mbombela and White River in the early hours of Monday. According to the the department of community safety, security and liaison, Mathebula’s accident happened at 12.30am on Monday morning. “What we know is that the driver of the bakkie and his passenger died instantly during an accident that involved a Range Rover SUV, and the vehicles caught fire and the two were burnt beyond recognition. The driver of the Range Rover was taken to hospital where he is receiving medical attention. The police are investigating a culpable homicide case,” said community safety, security and liaison spokesperson Moeti Mmusi. Mathebula presented an afternoon show on Saturdays called  Sisonke Midday Grooves (SMG) between 12pm-2.30pm as well as a jazz show called Weekend Wrap on Sundays at 10pm-12pm, from which he had just knocked off when he met his untimely death. “We are very shocked about Sfiso’s death, his mother cannot comprehend, she’s very weak," said Mathebula’s aunt Sindi Beck. "Sfiso was an angel to this family, he was always smiling. Each time when he left for work he would say 'the breadwinner is leaving for work now’, we would laugh about it, and he would always call again and say 'the breadwinner is back from work'. When he didn’t call on Monday morning after his weekend show we were worried,  then we got a call that he was involved in a car accident.” Beck said Mathebula had promised his younger brother he would pay  his tuition fees when he finished school. “Sfiso went to study in the University of Limpopo towards what he loved the most which is media studies. He liked education and also encouraged his young brother to do well in school and [said] he would pay for his fees,” said Beck. MEC for safety, security and liaison Gabisile Shabalala has sent her deepest condolences to the family of the deceased. “As the department we would like to send our deepest condolences to the bereaved families. This accident happens when we are celebrating Transport Month. We are calling for drivers on the road to obey the rules of the road,” said Shabalala. "Kingdom was a true ambassador of the station who never missed an opportunity to celebrate his colleagues on their achievements, both on the microphone and from behind the camera, as one of the drivers behind the station’s growing social media platforms,” said SABC spokesperson Cwy Mandindi in a statement. The family and the station are still planning the funeral arrangements.