The two men accused of murdering a 21-year-old Paul Roux farm manager are expected to hear their fate when judgment will be handed down on their bail application. Sekola Matlaletsa and Sekwetja Mahlamba are expected to appear in the Senekal magistrates court for allegedly murdering Brendin Horner by stabbing him multiple times and tying him to a pole on October 2. During their previous appearance, the prosecutor told the court that the blood samples lifted from Brendin Horner’s bakkie did  not match those of the two men accused of his murder. The prosecutor, who cannot be named or have his pictures taken due to a court order, said one of the DNA samples lifted from Horner’s bakkie did not match one of the accused, while the sample taken from the other accused was inconclusive and could not be analysed. “Two samples were taken from the accused to match them with DNA found in the bakkie. One of the samples came back defective and the other one did not match,” the prosecutor said. The prosecutor said the tests were conducted by an SAPS-accredited private laboratory. He said results for DNA samples extracted from a knife, the rope used to strangle Horner and clothes found at the scene could take up to 40 days to finalise. Investigating officer Capt Gerhardus Myburgh previously told the court that blood swabs that were taken from inside and outside Horner’s bloodied bakkie revealed that this was the blood of three men (Horner, Matlaletsa and Mahlamba). Myburgh said the accused had slight abrasions on their elbows when they were arrested a day after Horner’s murder. Mahlamba’s lawyer Joseph Kgoelenya argued that there was nothing linking his client to Horner’s murder and that the state's case was weak and based on circumstantial evidence. During cross-examination, Myburgh told the court that investigations were not yet concluded and that results of palm prints lifted from the crime scene were outstanding. Myburgh also conceded that Horner’s missing wallet and cellphone had  not yet been found despite a state witness saying that Mahlamba boasted and displayed Horner’s wallet and cellphone at a tavern the day after his murder. Machini Motloung, Matlaletsa’s lawyer, argued that the state had no evidence against his client and that it was clutching on straws. Motloung argued that Myburgh was biased in his investigations as he accepted circumstantial evidence given to him by witnesses, which was inconsistent with the alibi provided by Matlaletsa’s wife. Kgoelenya and Motloung argued that their clients' release on bail would not cause public unrest and that they would not interfere with investigations and witnesses. PODCAST | Survivors recount their farm attack experiences Subscribe for free episodes: iono.fm | Spotify | Player.fm | Pocket Casts